MISSING AIRLINER HAS TAKEN A NEW
TURN, TO A PATCH OF THE INDIAN
OCAN CELOSER TO AUSTRALIA, WHERE
SEARCH PLANES HAVE  SPOTTED
DEBRIS, SOME WITH THE VANISHED
JET'S COLORS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS FRIDAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA VISITS SAUDI
ARABIA ON A DIPLOMATIC MISSION
TO REPAIR RELATIONS WITH A
LONGTIME ALLY.
THEN, MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
OOKSBR ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS, SONGS OF INSPIRATION AND
EMPOWERMENT FOR AFRICA'S WOMEN.
FROM ONE OF THAT CONTINENT'S
MOST ACCLAIMED SINGERS, THE
GRAMMY-WINNER ANGELIQUE KIDJO
>> WE TRANSFORM AFRICA,
COMPLETELY, BY EDUCATING MORE
WOMEN.
BECAUSE WE NEED NEW LEADERSHIP.
>> Woodruf THOf:SE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE SEARCH FOR THE
MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINER MAY
BE GETTING WARMER-- NEARLY THREE
WEEKS AFTER THE PLANE
DISAPPEARED.
THE AUSTRALIAN MARITIME SAFETY
AUTHORITY, AMSA, SHIFTED ITS
FOCUS ALMOST 700 MILES TO THE
NORTHEAST TODAY, AND PLANES
QUICKLY RADIOED IN NEW
DISCOVERIES.
JOHN SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS FROM
PERTH, AUSTRALIA.
>> Reporter: THE SEARCH F
ANY SIGN OF THE MISSING
MALAYSIAN AERIALS MH370 HAS BEEN
LIFTED 11 KILOMETERS TO THE
NORTHEAST OF THE EXISTING SEARCH
AREA IS NOW THE MOST CREDIBLE
LEAD AS TO WHERE DEBRIS MAYBE
LOCATED.
WELL, HERE'S WHY THEY MOVED IT.
EXPERTS REEXAMINED RADAR DATA AS
THE BOEING 777 CHANGED COURSE,
TURNING WEST TOWARD THE MALACCA
STRAIT.
THEY FOUND THE AIRCRAFT WAS
FLYING FASTER THAN THOUGHT,
USING UP MORE FUEL AND LIMITING
THE DISTANCE IT COULD FLY.
THEY NOW THINK THE AIRCRAFT'S
FINAL LOCATION LIES SOMEWHERE
HERE IN 120,000-ODD SQUARE MILES
OF INDIAN OCEAN.
THE PREVIOUS SEARCH WAS FAR TO
THE SOUTH.
FOR THREE WEEKS, SEARCH TEAMS
HAVE SCOURED THE SURFACE OF THE
EARTH AND UP ABOVE SATELLITES
HAVE DONE THE SAME, PRODUCING A
SERIES OF SO-CALLED CREDIBLE
LEADS.
BUT THEY'VE COME TO NOTHING.
THE AUSTRALIANS HAVE, IN EFFECT,
ABANDONED THE SEARCH IN THE
SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN.
>> THIS IS THE NORMAL BUSINESS
OF SEARCH AND RESCUE OPERATIONS
THAT NEW INFORMATION COMES TO
LIGHT, THE ANALYSES TAKES YOU TO
A DIFFERENT PLACE.
>> Reporter: FLIGHT 370'S
BLACK BOX IS FITTED WITH AN
UNDERWATER BEACON WHICH COULD
LEAD PERSONNEL TO THE WRECKAGE
BUT THE DEVICE IS RUNNING OUT OF
POWER AND IF IT FALLS SILENT,
WELL, IT COULD TAKE YEARS TO
FIND THE AIRCRAFT.
PLANES SCOURED THE NEW SEARCH
AREA TODAY AND MULTIPLE OBJECTS
WERE SPOTTED, WE'RE TOLD.
THIS PICTURE TAKEN FROM THE
WINDOW OF A NEW ZEALAND
AIRPLANE.
OFFICIALS SAID THEY'VE ANALYZED
THIS OBJECT AND OTHERS
OVERNIGHT.
>> Ifill: HARI SREENIVASAN,
MORE ON THE SEARCH FOR THE PLANE
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
GENERAL MOTORS IS RECALLING
23,000 SMALL CARS THAT MAY HAVE
FAULTY IGNITION SWITCHES.
THE RECALL EXPANDS WHAT BEGAN
LAST MONTH WITH CHEVY, PONTIAC
AND SATURN MODELS DATING BACK TO
2003.
GM HAS COME UNDER FIRE FOR NOT
ACTING ON THE PROBLEM YEARS AGO.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
STOPPED OFF IN SAUDI ARABIA
TODAY, HOPING TO MEND FRAYED
TIES WITH THE KINGDOM.
THE SAUDIS HAVE BEEN CRITICAL OF
U.S. NUCLEAR TALKS WITH IRAN,
AND THEY WERE ANGERED LAST YEAR
WHEN THE PRESIDENT SCRAPPED
PLANS FOR A MILITARY STRIKE ON
SYRIA.
IRAN IS SUPPORTING THE ASSAD
REGIME IN SYRIA.
WE'LL LOOK DEEPER INTO THE U.S.-
SAUDI RELATIONSHIP IN A FEW
MOMENTS.
>> Woodruff: LATE TODAY, RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
TELEPHONED PRESIDENT OBAMA TO
DISCUSS UKRAINE.
THEY SPOKE FOR AN HOUR.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID MR. OBAMA
URGED HIM TO PULL RUSSIAN TROOPS
BACK FROM THE BORDER.
EARLIER, IN A C.B.S INTERVIEW,
THE PRESIDENT REBUKED PUTIN OVER
HIS SEIZURE OF CRIMEA.
>> HE MAY BE ENTIRELY MISREADING
THE WEST.
HE'S CERTAINLY MISREADING
AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY.
WE HAVE NO INTEREST IN CIRCLING
RUSSIA AND WE HAVE NO INTEREST
IN UKRAINE BEYOND LETTING
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE MAKE THEIR OWN
DECISIONS ABOUT THEIR OWN LIVES.
>> Woodruff: THE KREMLIN
ANNOUNCED NEW, RETALIATORY
MEASURES AGAINST COUNTRIES THAT
HAVE EXPANDED SANCTIONS AGAINST
RUSSIA.
NATO IS GETTING A NEW SECRETARY-
GENERAL, AMID THE CRISIS OVER
UKRAINE.
FORMER NORWEGIAN PREMIER
JENS STOLTENBERG WILL ASSUME HIS
NEW POST, STARTING IN OCTOBER.
HE SUCCEEDS ANDERS FOGH
RASMUSSEN.
IN WASHINGTON STATE, BAD WEATHER
HAMPERED THE SEARCH FOR MUDSLIDE
VICTIMS TODAY.
THE OFFICIAL DEATH TOLL IN LAST
SATURDAY'S DISASTER REMAINED AT
17.
A LOCAL FIRE CHIEF SAID EFFORTS
TO RECOVER AT LEAST NINE MORE
BODIES
ARE CONTINUING, DESPITE
RAINSTORMS THAT SOAKED THE SITE
ALL OVER AGAIN.
AND IT'S KIND OF LIKE A
FIBREGLASS.
YOU'VE GOT THE TREES INFUSED
WITH THE MUD WITH THE HOMEOWNER
STUFF WITH EVERYTHING IT'S ALL
ENFUSED TOGETHER.
AND THE DIGGING HAS BEEN VERY
ROUGH ESPECIALLY LATELY BECAUSE
IT'S RAINED THE LAST FEW DAYS SO
THERE'S A LOT MORE MUD AND THE
MUD IS MUCH MORE FLUID.
>> Ifill: 90 PEOPLE ARE STILL
LISTED AS MISSING, ROUGHLY HALF
THE POPULATION OF THE TINY
COMMUNITY OF OSO BEFORE THE
MUDSLIDE BURIED IT.
NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE DEFENDED A REPORT FOR
CLOSING A BRIDGE.
THE CANDIDATE HIRED THE LAWYERS
WHO DID THE REPORT INCLUDING A
FORM FEDERAL PROSECUTOR RANDY
MASTRO.
DEMOCRATS BRANDED IT A
WHITEWASH, BUT IN TRENTON,
CHRISTIE REJECTED THE CHARGE
23)
I THINK THE REPORT WILL STAND
THE TEST OF TIME. BUT IT WILL BE
TESTED BY THE OTHER
INVESTIGATIONS THAT ARE ONGOING
AND IT IS LIMITED, AS RANDY
MASTRO POINTED OUT, IN SMALL
PART BY SOME OF THE ACCESS THEY
HAD AND DIDNT HAVE UM TO CERTAIN
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: SEPARATE FEDERAL
AND STATE LEGISLATIVE
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE BRIDGE
CLOSING ARE CONTINUING.
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE TWO NEW
STUDIES ON CHOLESTEROL AND HEART
HEALTH OUT TODAY.
RESEARCHERS AT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY
REPORT ONE-THIRD OF PRE-TEENS
MAY HAVE BORDER-LINE OR HIGH
CHOLESTEROL.
THEY STUDIED 13,000 YOUTHS IN
TEXAS.
ANOTHER STUDY-- AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY-- CONCLUDES MARRIED
PEOPLE ARE LESS LIKELY THAN THE
UN-MARRIED TO SUFFER HEART OR
BLOOD VESSEL PROBLEMS.
IT INVOLVED MORE THAN 3.5
MILLION PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE WAS
UP NEARLY 59 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,323.
THE NASDAQ ROSE  AND THE S-AND-P
500 ADDED 8 POINTS TO FINISH AT
1857.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED A
TENTH OF A PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY THREE
PERCENT, AND THE S-AND-P 500
LOST HALF A PERCENT.
ONE OF THE BEST-KNOWN P.O.W'S
DURING THE VIETNAM WAR--
JEREMIAH DENTON-- DIED TODAY, AT
A VIRGINIA HOSPICE.
HE WAS A NAVY COMBAT PILOT, SHOT
DOWN OVER NORTH VIETNAM IN 1965.
THE NEXT YEAR, HE WAS SEEN
BLINKING THE WORD TORTURE, IN
MORSE CODE, DURING A PROPAGANDA
INTERVIEW.
HE LATER  WROTE OF REPEATED
BEATINGS IN HIS BOOK  "WHEN HELL
WAS IN SESSION".
DENTON WAS FINALLY RELEASED IN
1973 AND SERVED ONE TERM IN THE
U.S. SENATE FROM ALABAMA.
HE WAS 89 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A NEW TURN IN THE HUNT FOR THAT
MISSING AIRLINER; PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S VISIT TO SAUDI ARABIA;
THE PRESIDENT'S POINT MAN ON
EDUCATION UNDER FIRE; SHIELDS
AND BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S NEWS;
PLUS, A GRAMMY WINNER'S SONGS OF
EMPOWERMENT FOR AFRICA'S
WOMEN.
>> Woodruff: THE SEARCH FOR
FLIGHT 370 IS RESUMING BUT IT
HAS SHIFTED BY ALMOST 700 MILES
FOLLOWING NEW LEADS AND NEW
RADAR DATA ABOUT THE MISSING
AIRLINER.
IT'S BEEN THREE WEEKS SINCE THE
AIRLINER FIRST DISAPPEARED, AND
TIME IS DWINDLING BEFORE SOME
POTENTIAL PINGS FROM THE BLACK
BOX MAY END.
HARI SREENIVASAN IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIO GETS THE LATEST ON THE
INVESTIGATION.
>> Sreenivasan: AND FOR THAT, WE
TURN TO OUR OWN MILES O'BRIEN.
HE'S A PILOT, AVIATION ANALYST
AND OUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT.
HELP US UNDERSTAND THIS RECALL
CALCULATION OF THE RADAR AND HOW
IT IMPACTED CHANGING THE
LOCATION OF A SEARCH.
>> WELL, IT'S KIND OF LIKE, YOU
KNOW, A STORY PROBLEM FROM
MATHEMATICS IN MIDDLE SCHOOL,
DISTANCE EQUALS RATE TIMES TIME,
AND FACTOR IN FUEL CONSUMPTION.
ANYBODY WHO'S DRIVEN DOWN THE
HIGHWAY, YOU DRIVE 80 MILES AN
HOUR, YOU WILL BE STOPPING FOR
GAS SOONER.
SAME GOES FOR AN AIRLINER, IF
YOU'RE FLYING FASTER AT ANY
GIVEN ALTITUDE, YOU WILL BURN
SHORTER DISTANCE.
SO, BASICALLY, WHAT THEY HAVE
DETERMINED IS THAT THE AIRCRAFT
WENT DOWN TO 12,000 FEET, GIVE
OR TAKE, BASED ON MILITARY RADAR
RETURNS ON THE PRIMARY TARGET,
THE TRANSPONDER BEING OFF, BUT
THEY WERE ABLE TO DETERMINE
ROUGHLY THE ALTITUDE, AND HAVE
CONCLUDED AT, AT THAT ALTITUDE,
THE AIRCRAFT WAS FLYING OVER
WHAT PILOTS CALL THE RED-LINE
SPEED WHICH WOULD BE 400
UT
SPEED.
THAT IS AS FAST AS YOU WANT TO
GO AT THAT ALTITUDE.
AND WHEN YOU FACTOR IN THE
DISTANCE AND TIME AND FUEL CON
SEMPTION, THAT PUTS THEM WELL
SHORT OF PERTH AT THAT LOCATION
WHERE THEY MOVED THE SEARCH.
>> Reporter: WHY IS THIS
INFORMATION COMING OUT NOW AND
NOT A WEEK AGO?
>> I'M JUST AS INCREDULOUS AS
YOU ARE, HARI.
THIS IS AN INVESTIGATION THAT'S
VERY OPAQUE, DIFFICULT TO DRAW
CONCRETE CONCLUSIONS, BUT THE
FACT IS IT SHOULDN'T HAVE TAKEN
UPPARDZ OF 20 DAYS TO DRAW THIS
CONCLUSION.
I THINK PART OF THE PROBLEMS IS
THE MALAYSIANS WERE LATE TO
ORGANIZE THE INVESTIGATION IN A
MULTI-NATIONAL WAY AND I THINK
THERE IS SOME NATIONAL RIVALRIES
THAT ARE INVOLVED HERE AND THE
FACT THAT THE INFORMATION BEING
SHARED IS, IN FACT, BASED ON
MILITARY RADAR SYSTEMS.
SO THERE IS A RELUCTANCE TO
SHARE THIS INFORMATION.
YOU THROW THAT ALL TOGETHER IN
ONE POT AND YOU HAVE DATA THAT
HAS BEEN ANALYZED PROBABLY A
LITTLE LATER IN THE GAME THAN IT
SHOULD HAVE BEEN, AND THAT'S A
SHAME BECAUSE THE WEATHER IS
TERRIBLE THERE, THE CONDITIONS
ARE AWFUL, AND IT'S ONLY GOING
TO GET WORSE.
VERY SOON, IT WILL BE WINTER AND
THEY'LL HAVE TO SUSPEND ALL
SEARCHING.
>> Sreenivasan: BEST CASE
SCENARIO, LET'S SAY THE OBJECTS
THEY'RE SEEING TODAY ARE PARTS
OF THE PLANE.
IT'S STILL GOING TO BE HARD TO
FIND IT UNDER WATER.
>> YES, 20 DAYS OF DRIFT.
OCEANOGRAPHERS ARE GOOD AT
FIGURING OUT THE CURRENT.
THEY WILL TRY TO BACKTRACK THE
DEBRIS TO SEE WHERE THE IMPACT
ZONE MIGHT BE.
BUT THERE ARE BIG QUESTIONS AT
THIS POINT.
WE'RE GETTING TO THE EDGE OF THE
EXPECTED LIFE TO HAVE THE
BATTERIES INSIDE THE -- IDENTIFY
LIFE OF THE BATTERIES INSIDE THE
BLACK BOXES, THE SORT OF PINGERS
THAT CAN BE DETECTED USING AN
UNDERGROUND LISTENING DEVICE.
IT'S UNCLEAR IF THEY'RE WORKING
IN THE FIRST PLACE, BUT ASSUMING
EVERYTHING WENT WELL AND TO
SPEC, THERE'S NOT MUCH TIME TO
GET THE HYDROPHONE UNDERWATER TO
SEE IF THEY HEAR A PING.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THE
GEOGRAPHY OF THE NEW AREA
BENEFICIAL TO SEARCHERS?
WATER MORE SHALLOW, CLOSER TO
AUSTRALIA?
>> IT'S CLOSER WHICH IS GOOD
NEWS BECAUSE THE LAND-BASED
AIRCRAFT HAVE HAD VERY LITTLE
TIME ON STATION SEARCHING.
THEY'VE HAD TO FLY FOUR HOURS
JUST TO GET THERE, A COUPLE OF
HOURS ON SITE AND FOUR HOURS
BACK.
NOT AN EFFICIENT USE OF TIME.
IT'S CLOSER TO LAND.
THERE WILL BE MORE TIME TO DO
SEARCH GRIDS ON STATION.
THAT'S GOOD NEWS.
AS FAR AS THE DEPTH GOES, IT
STILL GETS DOWN TO AROUND
10,000 FEET, A COUPLE OF MILES,
WHICH IS ABOUT THE RANGE OF THE
PINGERS.
THAT'S WHY YOU NEED TO PUT
SOMETHING UNDER WATER AND GET IT
LOWER TO TRY TO GET YOUR BEST
CHANCE AT HEARING THE PINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: IN ALL THIS,
WHILE THE CLOCK IS TICKING ON
WHETHER THE BATTERIES HAVE
ALREADY RUN OUT OR RUNNING OUT
AS WE SPEAK.
>> YES, AND IN THE CASE OF THE
AIR FRANCE 447 CRASH IN 2009,
THEY ACTUALLY DID TAKE THE
HYDROPHONE RIGHT OVER THE
WRECKAGE SITE AND DID NOT HEAR A
PING.
WITHIN THE TIME FRAME THAT THE
PINGERS SHOULD HAVE BEEN
WORKING.
SO IT'S NOW THOUGHT THE PINGERS
NEVER WORKED IN THE CASE OF
AIR FRANCE.
SO THERE'S NO GUARANTEE THAT
THEREARE IN FACT PINGING.
SO THERE HAVE TO BE CONCURRENT
TO USE OTHER TECHNOLOGY TO
BASICALLY MAP THE OCEAN FLOOR IN
THE AREA WHERE THEY THINK THE
WRECKAGE MIGHT BE BECAUSE THAT
MAYBE THE ONLY WAY YOU FIND THE
WRECKAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: AS THE
BATTERIES RUN OUT ON THE PINGERS
AND BOXES, DOES THAT CHANGE THE
PSYCHOLOGY OF THE SEARCH?
>> WELL, IT DOES, BUT WE DON'T
KNOW EXACTLY WHEN THEY'RE GOING
TO RUN OUT.
30 DAYS IS THE SH SPECIFICATION.
THEY MAY HAVE GO LONGER, MAY
HAVE STOPPED.
YOU CONTINUE TO SEARCH USING
OTHER MEANS.
REALLY, THE CONSTRAINT IS GOING
TO BE MOTHER NATURE HERE.
EVENTUALLY, THE CONDITIONS WILL
BE TOO BAD TO SEARCH AT ALL AND
THEY WILL HAVE TO SUSPEND FOR
THE WINTER, WHICH IS WHY I THINK
THEY NEED MORE ASSETS ON
STATION, ADDITIONAL AIRCRAFT,
ADDITIONAL SHIPS.
THE U.S. NAVY IS IDEALLY SUITED
TO PROVIDE THE KIND OF TOOLS
THAT COULD REALLY SATURATE, YOU
KNOW, SORT OF DO A FULL-COURT
PRESS IN THE LIMITED TIME
AVAILABLE, EITHER SEND AN
AIRCRAFT CARRIER DOWN THERE OR
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL LAND-BASE
SEARCH AIRCRAFT.
THERE'S GOT TO BE A MORE
CONCERTED EFFORT AND I THINK
THERE ARE REASONS THAT ISN'T
HAPPENING BUT IT SHOULD.
>> Sreenivasan: MILES O'BRIEN,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YORE WU'ELCOME.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
WRAPPED UHIS P WEEK LONG TRIP
OVERSEAS WITH STOP IN SAUDI
ARABIA, IN AN EFFORT TO HEAL A
GROWING RIFT WITH A KEY PARTNER
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
NAMED SECOND IN LINE TO THE
THRONE.
THERE WERE NO PUBLIC STATEMENTS,
BUT AIDES SAID MR. OBAMA HOPED
TO REASSURE ABDULLAH ON KEY
CONCERNS.
ON SYRIA, FOR EXAMPLE, THE
SAUDIS WANT THE U.S. TO PROVIDE
MORE MILITARY AID TO SUNNI
REBELS FIGHTING PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD.
HE'S BACKED BY SHIITE IRAN.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT MAR'SIE HARF SOUGHT
TO PLAY DOWN DISIONVIS OVER
SYRIA.
>> WE'VE ALWAYS HAD SAME GOALS
WITH SAUDIS, RIGHT?
WE'VE HAD SOME TACTICAL
DIFFERENCES, WE'VE HAD
CONVERSATIONS AND WORKED THROUGH
THEM AND TODAY, FEEL LIKE WE ARE
IN A STRONGER PLACE WITH OUR TWO
COUNTRIES, CLOSELY COORDINATING
EVEN MORE WHAT KINDS OF
ASSISTANCE WE'RE PROVIDING, HOW
WE CAN INCREASE THAT ASSISTANCE,
WHAT MAKES THE MOST SENSE IN HOW
WE CAN CHANGE THE BALANCE OF
POWER THERE.
>> Brown: IN FACT, REPORTS TODAY
INDICATED THE PRESIDENT MAY
REVERSE HIS OPPOSITION TO
SUPPLYING THE SYRIAN REBELS WITH
SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILES.
BUT RIYADH ALSO HARBORS DEEP
DOUBTS ABOUT U.S. NUCLEAR
NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN.
AND, THE SAUDIS TOOK A DIM VIEW
OF U.S. SUPPORT FOR ARAB SPRING
UPRISINGS IN EGYPT AND OTHER
ARAB STATES.
ALL OF THIS LED SENIOR SAUDI
OFFICIALS LAST YEAR TO WARN OF A
"MAJOR SHIFT" AWAY FROM THEIR
LONG-TIME RELIANCE ON THE U.S.
THE KINGDOM EVEN TURNED DOWN A
SEAT ON THE U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL, ACCUSING THAT BODY OF
FAILING TO TAKE FIRM ACTION ON
SYRIA AND OTHER ISSUES.
>> Brown: FOR MORE ON THE STATE
OF THIS RELATIONSHIP, I'M JOINED
BY TOBY JONES, A HISTORIAN AT
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY WHO STUDIES
AND WRITES ON THE GULF STATES.
AND FREDERIC WEHREY, A FORMER
U.S. AIR FORCE OFFICER WHO
SERVED IN AND AROUND THE MIDDLE
EAST, INCLUDING THE PERSIAN
GULF, HE'S NOW AT THE CARNEGIE
UNFOLDING.
IRAN, SYRIA, EGYPT.
THE SAUDIS FUNDAMENTALLY ARE
WORRIED THIS NUCLEAR DEAL WILL
LEAVE IRAN'S REGIONAL AGGRESSION
UNCHECKED, THAT THE UNITED
STATES IS REALLY BEING SORT OF
HOOD WINKED BY IRAN.
ON SYRIA, THEY BELIEVE WE'RE NOT
DOING ENOUGH TO CHECK IRAN'S
INFLUENCE IN THAT COUNTRY, THAT
WE'RE NOT SUPPORTING THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION ENOUGH.
BUT THERE'S ALSO A SERIES OF
FUNDAMENTAL DISAGREEMENTS ABOUT
THE POST-ARAB SPRING MIDDLE
EAST, ESPECIALLY IN EGYPT.
THE SAUDIS BELIEVE THE
ADMINISTRATION HAD A DANGEROUS
NIE YEEFTY ABOUT THE BROTHERHOOD
AND THE SAUDIS STEPPED IN AND
BACKED THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT
THERE.
>> Brown: SO ALL OF THESE ARE
BIG DEVELOPMENTS TO HAVE THE
LAST FEW YEARS.
>> YES.
THERE IS ALSO SOMETHING MORE
FUNDAMENTALLY AT STAKE WITH WITH
RESPECT TO RIYADH AND THAT'S THE
UNITED STATES WAS AM BIFF LEAPT
AT BEST ABOUT THE PROCESS
DEMOCRACY FOLLOWING THE
UPRISINGS.
THE SAUDIS ARE FEARFUL ABOUT THE
IDEA OF POLITICAL EMPOWERMENT
AND RULE AND ACTING AGGRESSIVELY
TO COUNTER THAT.
I THINK THAT CAUGHT THE
AMERICANS OFFGUARD, THOUGH COULD
HAVE BEEN EASILY ANTICIPATED.
IN ADDITION TO THE GEOPOLITICAL
PROBLEM THAT FRED OUTLINED
CLEARLY, THE SAUDIS ARE
TERRIFIED BY THE PROSPECT OF THE
NEW POLITICAL ORDER ACROSS THE
REGION AND THAT THE AMERICANS
MIGHT SUPPORT IT.
>> Brown: WHAT DID THE U.S.
WANT OUT OF THIS MEETING AND
WHAT DOES IT WANT NOW FROM THIS
RELATIONSHIP?
>> WELL, I THINK AMERICAN AND
SAUDI INTERESTS ALIGN
THEORETICALLY AROUND ISSUES OF
TERRORISM, ABOUT HOW TO DEAL
WITH IRAN IF IT DOESN'T
ACCOMMODATE THE UNITED STATES'
DEMANDS WITH RESPECT TO ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND NEGOTIATIONS
THERE.
BUT IN PRACTICE, THERE ARE DEEP
DECISIONS AND I THINK THE
AMERICANS WANTED TO SHOW UP TO
ASSURE THE SAUDIS THAT THIS IS A
RELATIONSHIP THAT'S LASTED FOR
QUITE A LONG TIME AND SHOULD
PROCEED GOING FORWARD.
BUT ALSO THERE'S A MOMENT ON THE
HORIZON, IF YOU WILL, IN WHICH
THESE THINGS MIGHT HAVE TO BE
RETHOUGHT.
>> Brown: FREDERIC, HOW BIG A
RIFT, HOW DOES IT SHOW ITSELF,
WHAT'S BEING DONE IF ANYTHING TO
MEND IT?
>> WELL, THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT,
I THINK, PERIOD OF TURBULENCE
WE'RE GOING THROUGH.
WE HAVE TO REMEMBER, THROUGHOUT
THE HISTORY OF U.S.-SAUDI
RELATIONS, THERE'S ALWAYS BEEN
THE SENSE BY THE SAUDIS THAT THE
UNITED STATES IS NOT A RELIABLE
SECURITY GUARANTOR.
YOU GO BACK TO THE KENNEDY
ADMINISTRATION, THEY WERE SAYING
YOU'RE NOT DOING ENOUGH TO
SUPPORT US AGAINST NASER, AFTER
THE IRANIAN REVOLUTION, SAME
THING.
>> Brown: AN OLD STORY.
IT IS.
I THINK THE REGION IS CHANGING
IN FUNDAMENTAL WAYS.
THE U.S. SEES IT GOING ONE WAY,
THE SAUDIS SEE IT GOING ANOTHER,
AND I DO THINK THE RELATIONSHIP
WILL HAVE TO BE RENEGOTIATED
LATER ON.
RIGHT NOW THE FUNDAMENTAL
PILLARS OF THE RELATIONSHIP, THE
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE U.S.,
THE MILITARY ASSISTANCE THAT THE
U.S. GIVES TO SAUDI ARABIA
REMAINS SOLID AND EXCELLENT
COOPERATION ON COUNTERTERRORISM.
>> Brown: FROM BOTH SIDES,
FROM THE SAUDI MILITARY AND U.S.
MILITARY?
THOSE INTERESTS HAVE NOT
CHANGED, YOU'RE SAYING?
>> THAT'S MY UNDERSTANDING, YES.
I THINK THERE IS STILL THIS
FUNDAMENTAL RECOGNITION BY THE
SAUDIS THAT THEY NEED U.S.
MILITARY SUPPORT.
WE SEE THEM GOING ON SHOPPING
SPREES TO OTHER COUNTRIES --
CHINA, INDONESIA, PAKISTAN --
BUT FUNDAMENTALLY NO ONE ELSE IS
PROVIDING THE TYPE OF SUPPORT
THAT THE U.S. PROVIDES.
>> Brown: TOBY JONES, YOU'RE
SUGGESTING SOME OF THIS RIFT IS
REALLY DUE TO THE PERCEPTIONS BY
THE SAUDIS OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, AND MORE RECENT
ACTIONS.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S CORRECT.
I THINK THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
HAS STAKED OUT A MINIMALIST
POSITION IN THE MIDDLE EAST
WHERE IT WOULD LIKE TO SORT OF
REDUCE THE AMERICAN FOOTPRINT
THERE.
I KNOW MILITARY STRATEGISTS
DON'T SEE OUR POSITION IN THE
PERSIAN GULF AS BEING
SUSTAINABLE OVER THE LONG TERM.
THIS IS A VERY SERIOUS CONCERN
FOR THE SAUDIS.
I THINK THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT,
THAT THE RELATIONSHIP, AT LEAST
RHETORICALLY, HAS BEEN FRAMED
THROUGH THE LANGUAGE OF SECURITY
AND SAUDI ARABIA'S ANXIETY ABOUT
STABILITY IN WHAT IT CALLS A
DANGEROUS NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE AMERICANS HAVE BOUGHT INTO
THAT AND PROTECTED IT FOR THEIR
O POWNLITICAL AND ECONOMIC
INTERESTS.
BUT LET'S ALSO REMEMBER THE
AMERICANS PROFITED FROM BEING IN
THE REGION.
THIS HASN'T BEEN SOMETHING WE'RE
STRONG-ARMED INTO.
THERE'S A GREAT DEAL OF OIL
WEALTH THAT GOES THROUGH THE
ECONOMY AND MASSIVE AND
EXPENSIVE MILITARY WEAPONS
SYSTEMS.
SO THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
AGREEMENT ON BASIC ISSUES.
AND I DON'T SEE THOSE THINGS
NECESSARILY CHANGING.
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THE
AMERICANS ARE WILLING TO COMMIT
MILITARY RESOURCES FOR THE LONG
TERM IN THE REGION.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE THE
VALUES ISSUES, THE HUMAN RIGHTS
ISSUES IN THE WHITE HOUSE SAID
TODAY THERE'S NO DISCUSSION OF
HUMAN RIGHTS TODAY BUT THIS
REMAINS IMPORTANT FOR MANY
PEOPLE.
SHOULD THE U.S. BE TAKING THOSE
MORE SERIOUSLY, HAVE WE TURNED A
BLIND EYE TO THE PRACTICE OF
SAUDIS WITHIN THEIR OWN COUNTRY
AND THROUGHOUT THE ARAB WORLD?
>> I THINK WE HAVE TURNED A
BLIND EYE.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE WE SEEM TO BE
FOCUSED ON SOLICITING SAUDI
SUPPORT FOR REGIONAL OBJECTIVES,
THAT WE'RE IGNORING OR BRUSHING
OFF VERY DISCONCERTING AND I
THINK ALARMING DOMESTIC
DEVELOPMENTS.
THE SAUDIS HAVE JUST ENACTED A
SWEEPING ANTI-TERRORISM LAW.
THERE'S MASSIVE CENSORSHIP.
THEY'VE CRIMINALIZED THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD WHICH MOST OTHER
ARAB STATES IN THE UNITED STATES
REGARDS AS A GENERALLY POLITICAL
MOVEMENT.
THIS IS VERY WORRISOME AND WE
SHOULD BE RACE RAISING THESE
ISSUES NOT SOLELY BECAUSE THEY
ALIGN WITH OUR VALUES BUT FROM A
SECURITY PERSPECTIVE.
WE KNOW FROM 9/11 WHAT HAPPENS
INSIDE THE KINGDOM AND THE GULF
DOESN'T STAY THERE AND CAN
AFFECT OUR SECURITY.
>> Brown: TOBY JONES, ONE
OTHER ISSUES, WE SAW IN OUR
SETUP PIECE, AN AGING MONARCH, A
NEW PERSON NAMED AS NUMBER TWO.
THERE ARE MANY PRINCES VYING FOR
THAT, I GATHER.
HOW MUCH OF THIS UNSETTLED
PERIOD HAS TO DO WITH WHAT
HAPPENS WITH THE SEX SESSIO SUCN
SAUDI ARABIA?
>> I DON'T THINK THE SAUDIS HAVE
ANXIETY ABOUT SUCCESSION.
THEY KNOW WHAT IT WILL LOOK
LIKE.
THEY HAVE HAD DIFFICULT MOMENTS
IN THE 1960s AND THE END OF
THE 1970s WITH SUCCESSION.
THEIR PRIORITY IS TO PROTECT THE
FAMILY STATUS.
THEY DON'T RULE BY POPULAR
CONSENSUS, THEY RULE THROUGH
BRUTALITY, THE THREAT OF
VIOLENCE.
BUT THEY HAVE AN IDEA THEY WANT
TO STICK TOGETHER THROUGH GOOD
AND BAD TIMES AND WILL PROTECT
THEMSELVES PRETTY EFFECTIVELY.
>> Brown: TOBY JONES AND
FREDERIC WEHREY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK INDIANA
BECAME THE FIRST STATE TO DROP
THE SO-CALLED "COMMON CORE"
PUBLIC EDUCATION STANDARDS
ADOPTED ACROSS MUCH OF THE
COUNTRY.
STATE OFFICIALS THERE WILL NOW
CREATE THEIR OWN PLAN.
INDIANA MAY BE THE FIRST TO DO
SO, BUT LIKELY WON'T BE THE
LAST.
THERE'S GROWING ANGER ABOUT THE
OVERALL ROLE OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IN EDUCATION, AND
OFTEN IT FOCUSES ON THE
SECRETARY OF EDUCATION.
THE NEWSHOUR'S SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MERROW, HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: EDUCATION SECRETARY
ARNE DUNCAN, WHO RAN THE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS IN CHICAGO FOR EIGHT
YEARS, IS PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
FRIEND AND TRUSTED CONFIDANTE
AND THIS FORMER PRO-BASKETBALL
PLAYER CAN STILL HOLD HIS OWN ON
THE COURT.
HOWEVER, WITH NATIONAL
VISIBILITY AND POWER COMES
CRITICISM.
ON THE RIGHT FROM JOHN KLINE,
CHAIR OF THE HOUSE EDUCATION AND
THE WORKFORCE COMMITTEE.
>> WHEN YOU GIVE THE CABINET
SECRETARY A BIG PILE OF MONEY,
AND THEN HE STARTS CHANGING
POLICY, AND IN FACT DICTATING
POLICY, THAT'S ACTING LIKE A
SUPERINTENDENT.
>> Reporter: AND ON THE LEFT
FROM DIANE RAVITCH, AUTHOR OF
"REIGN OF ERROR."
>> WE NOW HAVE LOCAL COMMUNITIES
ASKING THEIR STATE FOR
PERMISSION, AND THE STATE ASKING
ARNE DUNCAN FOR PERMISSION, AND
ARNE DUNCAN AS THE NATION'S
SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT.
>> Reporter: WHY ARE CRITICS ON
THE LEFT AND THE RIGHT ACCUSING
ARNE DUNCAN OF MEDDLING IN THE
NATION'S 100,000 PUBLIC SCHOOLS?
HOW MUCH POWER DO THEY THINK HE
HAS?
HOW MUCH POWER DOES HE HAVE?
IT TURNS OUT, QUITE A LOT.
ONLY NINE MEN AND WOMEN HAVE
SERVED AS SECRETARY OF
EDUCATION.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION DIDN'T
EXIST PRIOR TO 1979.
>> AND THIS ADMINISTRATION
DECLARES UNCONDITIONAL WAR ON
POVERTY IN AMERICA.
>> Reporter: WASHINGTON BECAME
DEEPLY INVOLVED IN EDUCATION IN
1965 WITH THE PASSAGE OF THE
ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY
DUCATION ACT, KNOWN AS E.S.E.A.
IT GAVE MONEY TO SCHOOLS SERVING
IMPOVERISHED CHILDREN.
>> THE IDEA WAS, WE HAVE TO
CREATE SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT
WILL HELP COMPENSATE FOR
DIFFERENT KINDS OF DISADVANTAGE.
>> Reporter: SO, IT WAS ABOUT
EQUITY.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Reporter: EVERYTHING CHANGED
IN 2001 WITH THE NO CHILD LEFT
BEHIND ACT, OR N.C.L.B.
>> THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF
THIS BILL IS THAT EVERY CHILD
CAN LEARN, WE EXPECT EVERY CHILD
TO LEARN AND YOU MUST SHOW US
WHETHER OR NOT EVERY CHILD IS
LEARNING.
>> Reporter: WASHINGTON WAS NO
LONR GIGEVING MONEY TO HELP ONE
GROUP: THE DISADVANTAGED.
NOW THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
WANTED RESULTS: EVERY SCHOOL HAD
TO PROVE THAT ALL STUDENTS COULD
MEET THE MARK.
EDUCATION HISTORIAN JONATHAN
ZIMMERMAN OF NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
EXPLAINS.
>> I THINK IT WAS UNPRECEDENTED
IN WHAT IT, HAD THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT DOING, WHICH IS
REQUIRING EVERYBODY TO TEST THE
KIDS IN GRADES THREE THROUGH
EIGHT, REQUIRING THEM TO,
DISAGGREGATE THIS DATA IN
DIFFERENT WAYS, INCLUDING, BASED
ON RACE AND ETHNICITY, TYING
VARIOUS SANCTIONS, POSITIVE AND
NEGATIVE, TO THOSE OUTCOMES.
>> Reporter: IF SCHOOLS DID NOT
IMPROVE, THEY FACED SIGNIFICANT
CONSEQUENCES.
SCHOOLS COULD BE SHUT DOWN, ALL
TEACHERS AND ADMINISTRATORS
REPLACED.
BEFORE LONG, THE LAW THAT
EVERYONE ONCE SUPPORTED WAS
BEING ROUNDLY CRITICIZED.
>> I FELL FOR IT, LOTS OF OTHER
PEOPLE FELL FOR IT.
>> NOW EVERYBODY KNOWS IT WON'T
WORK.
IT IS TIME TO FIX THE LAW.
>> MY PLAN A WAS ALWAYS TO WORK
WITH CONGRESS TO FIX NO CHILD
LEFT BEHIND, NO CHILD LEFT
BEHIND IS FUNDAMENTALLY BROKEN,
IT IS OBSOLETE, IT HAD MANY
PERVERSE INCENTIVES, LED TO A
DUMMYING DOWN OF STANDARDS, LED
TO TOO MUCH OF A FOCUS ON A
SINGLE TEST SCORE.
SO NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND WAS
DOING FRANKLY A LOT OF HARM.
>> Reporter: NO CHILD LEFT
BEHIND, WHICH REQUIRES ALL
STUDENTS TO BE PROFICIENT THIS
YEAR, EXPIRED IN 2007, BUT IT
REMAINS THE LAW OF THE LAND
UNTIL CONGRESS REWRITES IT.
BECAUSE NOT A SINGLE STATE HAS
ACHIEVED 100% PROFICIENCY.
ALL 50 STATES ARE BREAKING THE
LAW, OR WOULD BE, IF SECRETARY
DUNCAN DID NOT GRANT THEM
WAIVERS.
THE WAIVERS ARE, IN EFFECT,
CARROTS TO AVOID THE BIG NO
CHILD LEFT BEHIND STICK.
>> THE SECRETARY IS ALLOWED TO
GRANT WAIVERS; HIS PREDECESSORS
GRANTED WAIVERS.
BUT WHAT HE'S DOING IS GRANTING
TEMPORARY CONDITIONAL WAIVERS.
THAT IS, "YOU GET THE WAIVER IF
YOU DO WHAT I WANT YOU TO DO."
>> Reporter: DUNCAN HAS TE
WAIVERS TO 43 STATES THAT HAVE
AGREED TO CERTAIN CONDITIONS,
INCLUDING USING STUDENT TEST
SCORES TO EVALUATE TEACHERS.
>> THAT'S A TERRIBLE WAY TO
ESTABLISH EDUCATION POLICY.
>> PREVIOUS SECRETARIES HAVE
PROVIDED WAIVERS TO STATES ON
VARIOUS THINGS, SO THIS IS
AGAIN, LEGALLY FOLKS ARE HAPPY
TO CHALLENGE THIS IF THEY WANT
TO, BUT WERE ON STRONG, SOLID
FOOTING THERE, AND WERE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO PARTNER WITH STATES.
WE ARE OUT TRAVELING IN THE
COUNTRY EVERY WEEK.
WE TALK TO TEACHERS, WE TALK TO
PARENTS, STUDENTS, SCHOOL BOARD
MEMBERS, AND HOPEFULLY WHAT
YOU'VE SEEN IS A MUCH BETTER
SENSE OF PARTNERSHIP.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE ECONOMY
TANKED IN 2009, SECRETARY
DUNCAN'S POWER OVER EDUCATION
INCREASED DRAMATICALLY.
A DESPERATE CONGRESS APPROVED A
$100 BILLION EDUCATION STIMULUS
PACKAGE TO KEEP SCHOOLS FROM
SHUTTING DOWN AND TEACHERS FROM
BEING LAID OFF.
NEARLY FIVE BILLION OF THAT WAS
DISCRETIONARY, MEANING THAT
DUNCAN COULD SPEND IT AS HE SAW
FIT.
NO PREVIOUS SECRETARY OF
EDUCATION HAD EVER HAD SUCH
POWER.
IN 2009 THE PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED
A COMPETITION FOR THE MONEY.
>> RATHER THAN DIVVYING IT UP
AND HANDING IT OUT, WE ARE
LETTING STATES AND SCHOOL
DISTRICTS COMPETE FOR IT.
>> Reporter: ALMOST EVERY STATE
ENTERED THE RACE, BUT FEW WERE
EXPECTED TO WIN.
>> WE'RE NERVOUS.
>> REPORTER: SO, STATES WILL GET
MORE MONEY IF THEY DO THIS THING
THAT DUNCAN WANTS.
>> IF YOU PLAY BY THESE RULES.
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
SOME OF US LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
RACE TO THE TOP AS NO CHILD LEFT
BEHIND ON STEROIDS. THE
PRINCIPLES OF RACE, RACE TO THE
TOP ARE THE SAME AS NO CHILD
LEFT BEHIND, WHICH IS, YOU KNOW,
WE'RE GOING TO REWARD STATES
THAT SET AND MAINTAIN A HIGH
STANDARD.
>> Reporter: STATES THAT AGREED
TO DUNCAN'S CONDITIONS,
INCLUDING DEVELOPING COMMON
STANDARDS AND ASSESSMENTS AND
USING STUDENT TEST SCORES TO
EVALUATE TEACHERS, HAD A BETTER
CHANCE OF WINNING.
>> I'M A MUCH BIGGER BELIEVER IN
CARROTS AND NOT STICKS; YOU
KNOW, YOU ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO GO
IN A CERTAIN DIRECTION.
IF THEY WANT TO GO INTO A
DIFFERENT DIRECTION THEY
ABSOLUTELY HAVE THE RIGHT TO DO
THAT.
>> Reporter: WHAT THE SECRETARY
CALLED ENCOURAGEMENT, HIS
CRITICS SAW AS COERCION.
>> THE STATES WENT ALONG WITH
RACE TO THE TOP BECAUSE THEY
WERE ALL BROKE.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE SAYING THE
STATES WERE BOUGHT?
>> THEY, YEAH, WELL, YES, OF
COURSE.
>> Reporter: DURING THE RACE TO
THE TOP COMPETITION, A COALITION
OF STATES RELEASED THE COMMON
CORE STATE STANDARDS.
THESE WERE DEVELOPED WITMONEH Y
FROM PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS, NOT
FEDERAL DOLLARS.
45 STATES AND THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA ADOPTED THEM.
>> IF YOU ADOPT THE COMMON CORE,
YOU'RE MUCH MORE LIKELY TO GET
RACE TO THE TOP GRANTS.
YOU'RE MUCH MORE LIKELY TO GET A
TEMPORARY CONDITIONAL WAIVER.
AND THAT PUTS THE SECRETARY IN
THE BUSINESS OF STARTING TO
DRIVE NATIONAL STANDARDS AND
PERHAPS, NATIONAL TESTS AND
NATIONAL CURRICULUM.
WE DON'T WANT THAT.
>> Reporter: THE COMMON CORE IS
NOT CURRICULUM.
IT'S UP TO INDIVIDUAL STATES TO
DEVELOP HOW AND WHAT TO TEACH.
BUT DUNCAN'S EDUCATION
DEPARTMENT HAS FUNDED THE
DEVELOPMENT OF COMMON CORE
TESTS, TO THE TUNE OF ABOUT $350
MILLION.
>> I BELIEVE THIS NEW GENERATION
OF ASSESSMENTS IS AN ABSOLUTE
GAME CHANGER FOR AMERICAN
EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: DUNCAN'S CRITICS
SAY HE WENT TOO FAR WHEN HE
FINANCED THE TESTS.
>> THE LAW IS VERY CLEAR THAT NO
AGENT OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT MAY
DO ANYTHING TO DIRECT, CONTROL,
OR SUPERVISE CURRICULUM AND
INSTRUCTION.
>> Reporter: TESTING IS--
>> TESTING--
>> Reporter: --NOT CURRICULUM.
>> NO, IT'S NOT. BUT IT CONTROLS
CURRICULUM.
TESTING, WHAT IS TESTED IS WHAT
GETS TAUGHT.
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT.
THAT'S THE ULTIMATE FEAR, THAT
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES GET
IN THE CURRICULUM BUSINESS AND
TELLS THE STATES WHAT THEY'RE
SUPPOSED TO TEACH.
>> Reporter: AS FOR THE
SECRETARY, HE STAYS RESOLUTELY
ON MESSAGE.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO HAVE HIGH
STANDARDS, WE'VE ENCOURAGED
THAT, HOW YOU TEACH TO THOSE
HIGHER STANDARDS, THE CURRICULUM
BEHIND THAT WE HAVE NEVER
TOUCHED THAT, NER HAVEVE, NEVER
WILL DO THAT.
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH THE
DISCRETIONARY DOLLARS ARE ALMOST
GONE, SECRETARY DUNCAN STILL HAS
THE POWER TO GRANT OR WITHHOLD
WAIVERS.
AND IF ANY OF THE 46 STATES WITH
RACE TO THE TOP FUNDING OR
N.C.L.B. WAIVERS DO NOT LIVE UP
TO THEIR END OF THE BARGAIN, THE
SECRETARY COULD FORCE THEM TO
RETURN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND OOS.
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO PRESIDENT OBAMA IN EUROPE
THIS WEEK, MARK AND DAVID,
TRYING TO RALLY THE ALLIES,
STIFFEN THEIR SPINE TO STAND UP
TO VLADIMIR PUTIN IF IT BECOMES
NECESSARY BUT MARK IS THE UNITED
STATES READY TO DO WHAT IT TAKES
TO STAND UP TO RUSSIA IF THEY
NEED TO?
>> I DON'T, JUDY.
WE HOPE THAT'S THE CASE.
BUT WE'RE CLOSER THIS WEEK THAN
TWO WEEKS AGO BECAUSE, IF
ANYTHING, PUTIN'S ACTIONS HAVE
DRIVEN THE -- DRIVEN THE WESTERN
ALLIES CLOSER TOGETHER.
THERE WAS LINGERING PROBLEMS.
THE UNITED STATES AND ASIAN
OCCUPATION OF IRAQ WAS OPPOSED
BY FRANCE AND GERMANY, THERE
HAVE BEEN DISAGREEMENTS
SOMETIMES ON WHAT TO DO IN THE
MIDDLE EAST, BUT THERE'S BEEN
NOW THE RECOGNITION OF
DEPENDENCE AND INTERDEPENDENCE,
THAT THEY HAVE A LOT MORE IN
COMMON THAN THEY HAVE DIVIDING
THEM, AND I THINK, IF ANYTHING,
THE ALLIES, AS WE CALL THEM, THE
WESTERN EUROPEANS ARE A LOT
CLOSER AND MORE UNITED THAN THEY
WERE, IN LARGE PART BECAUSE THE
LEADERSHIP OF THE LEADERS,
INCLUDING THE PRESIDENT, BUT
PARTICULARLY BECAUSE OF PUTIN'S
ACTIONS.
>> Ifill: MORE UNITED, DAVID,
AND STRONG ENOUGH TO DO WHAT IT
TAKES?
>> WELL, THOSE ARE TWO SEPARATE
QUESTIONS.
MORE UNITED, FOR SURE.
CERTAINLY UNITED ON OUR ANALYSIS
OF VLADIMIR PUTIN.
I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID IT
VERY WELL IN BRUSSELS THIS WEEK
THAT PUTIN REPRESENTS A THREAT
TO THE GLOBAL ORDER, THE IDEA
THAT YOU CAN CHANGE BORDERS, THE
IDEA THAT YOU CAN HAVE SPHERES
OF INFLUENCE, THAT'S NOT
ACCEPTABLE IN A POST-COLD WAR
WORLD AND I THINK THE EUROPEANS
AND AMERICANS SEE THAT THE SAME
WAY.
WHAT WE CAN DO ABOUT IT, THERE
IS UNION BUT SOME DIVISION.
THE EUROPEANS ARE OBVIOUSLY, FOR
ECONOMIC REASONS, A LOT LESS
WILLING TO GO FARN SANCTIONS.
THEY RELY ON RUSSIA FOR ENERGY.
THEY RELY ON RUSSIAN OLIGARCH
MONEY THROUGH THEIR BANKING
SYSTEMS, REAL ESTATE, SCHOOLS,
SO THEY HAVE BEEN A LITTLE MORE
HESITANT.
NEVERTHELESS THE SANCTIONS HAVE
BEEN STRONG.
THE ISSUE GOING FORWARD IS
AGGRESSION.
PUTIN DOESN'T SEEM TO BE MOVED
BY ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ALONE, I
SEE UKRAINIAN TROOPS ON THE
BORDER.
DO YOU HAVE TO HAVE A MILITARY
DETERRENT?
ARMING UKRAINE, SOME OTHER
METHOD OF DETERRING FROM PUTIN
FROM GOING IN AND REWRITING THE
BORDERS.
>> Ifill: DOES THE WEST, MARK,
HAVE THE STOMACH?
IS IT PREPARED TO DO SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
>> I DON'T THINK UKRAINE OR
ANYBODY THINKS THAT'S THE CASE.
I THINK THE APPETITE FOR
MILITARY ENGAGEMENT IS
DIMINISHED, AFTER AFGHANISTAN IN
PARTICULAR.
BUT I DO THINK THE ISOLATION OF
PUTIN RATHER THAN THE HU
HUMILIATION, WHICH I THINK IS
THE WAY THE PRESIDENT HAS
APPROACHED, HAS BEEN WISE.
LET'S UNDERSTAND, PUTIN DOESN'T
REPRESENT SOME INTERNATIONAL
MOVEMENT.
IT'S NOT COMMUNISM IN THE SENSE
THAT THERE ARE OUTPOSTS ALL OVER
CENTRAL AMERICA FOLLOWING PUTIN.
THIS IS ONE MAN.
HE IS RUSSIA RIGHT NOW.
I THINK TO THE DEGREE THAT HE
CAN BE ISOLATED AND MADE, AS
PRESIDENT REAGAN DIDN'T SAY
LET'S GO IN AND TAKE DOWN THAT
WALL AND DESTROY IT, HE SAID
TEAR DOWN THAT WALL, AND I THINK
THAT'S BEEN THE APPROACH
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS TAKEN THIS
WEEK.
>> Ifill: MAYBE THE PHONE CALL
TODAY DAVID LATE TODAY WAS A
GOOD SIGN.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT REALLY CAME
OF IT.
>> RIGHT.
I DISAGREE WITH IT'S PUTIN, ONE
MAN.
PUTIN IS SORT OF A NATIONALIST
IDEOLOGY.
THE BOOKS HE SENDS OUT TO
REGIONAL GOVERNORS REALLY SAW
RUSSIA AS A CRUCIAL WORLD POWER.
THE BRIDGE BETWEEN EAST AND WEST
PLAYING A MUCH LARGER ROLE.
AND ONE THING WE'VE SEEN IN
PUBLIC OPINION, HE'S BECOME VERY
POPULAR IN THE COURSE OF THIS
CRISIS AND THE IDEA OF INVADING
UKRAINE IS POPULAR.
>> AND THE QUESTION IS NOT HIS
POPULARITY IN RUSSIA, BUT I'M
SAYING THERE ARE NOT PUTIN
OUTPOSTS IN NIC NICARAGUA OR CEL
AND LATIN AMERICA.
THERE'S NOT REALLY AN IDEOLOGY
OR PHILOSOPHY HERE.
>> Ifill: NEXT STOP FOR THE
PRESIDENT WAS ROME WHEN HE MET
WITH POPE FRANCIS.
THE PICTURES WERE CAPTIVATING.
HOW IMPORTANT IS IT FOR THE
PRESIDENT TO BE SEEN OR ANY
PRESIDENT TO BE SEEN AS ALIGNED
WITH THE CATHOLIC -- THE ROMAN
CATHOLIC POPE?
>> YEAH, I THINK THIS POPE IS
GREAT, HAS CAPTURED THE
IMAGINATION.
POPE FRANCIS IS 8 OR 9 TO THREE
FAVORABLE AMONG AMERICANS.
HE'S WHERE BARACK OBAMA WAS FIVE
YEARS AGO.
HE'S MAN OF THE YEAR AND SORT OF
CAPTURED THE IMAGINATION, A ROCK
STAR.
BUT I THINK, POLITICALLY, IT'S
IMPORTANT IN THIS COUNTRY
BECAUSE, VERY BLUNTLY,
REPUBLICAN LEADERS HAVE BEEN
SHREWDLY CLOSE TO CATHOLIC
BISHOPS PARTICULARLY ON CULTURAL
AND SOCIAL ISSUES, ON ABORTION,
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE, HAVE
IDENTIFIED WITH THEM, AND THIS
POPE HAS NOT CHANGED THE WORDS,
JUST THE MUSIC, AND HE TALKS AN
AWFUL LOT MORE ABOUT THE
IDOLATRY OF MONEY, HE TALKS
ABOUT TRICKLE-DOWN ECONOMICS
BEING A FAILURE, AND TREATING
HUMAN BEINGS AS THROWAWAYS.
SO HE'S ACTUALLY ON THE
BROADCAST LAST NIGHT WITH GWEN,
HE'S TO THE LEFT OF OBAMA.
HE TALKS ABOUT THE POOR, BARACK
OBAMA TA TALKS ABOUT THE MIDDLE
CLASS.
ECONOMICALLY AND POLITICALLY IT
WAS GOOD FOR THE PRESIDENT AND
STRENGTHENS HIS ECONOMIC
ARGUMENT HERE AT HOME.
>> Ifill: SO SOME OF THE
POPE'S POPULARITY CAN RUB OFF ON
THE PRESIDENT OR IS THAT NOT THE
WAY IT WORKS?
>> MAYBE IF HE CONVERTS
(LAUGHTER)
NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
TO BE HONEST WITH YOU ABOUT
THESE MEETINGS, FOR ANY U.S.
PRESIDENT, THE POPE --
OBVIOUSLY, THIS IS A MAGICAL
POPE, BUT ANY POPE COMES WITH A
HISTORY OF CATHOLIC SOCIAL
TEACHING BEHIND HIM AND PROBABLY
ALWAYS.
AND THAT'S A COMMUNAL SOCIAL
TEACHING.
THAT'S A SOCIAL TEACHING THAT
PRESENTS SOLIDARITY.
ON ECONOMIC TERMS, THAT'S GOING
TO PUT THE CHURCH MORE ON THE
LEFT, ON SOCIAL TERMS MORE ON
THE RIGHT.
THERE IS ALWAYS GOING TO BE
DIFFERENCES WITH ANY U.S.
PRESIDENTS AS FAR AS POLITICS IS
ALIGNED, AND I ALWAYS THINK IT
HAS A POSITIVE EFFECT ON THE
PRESIDENT FROM REMINDING A U.S.
LEADER OF A MORE COMMUNAL
PHILOSOPHY, AND THE POPE GAVE
THE PRESIDENT HIS BOOK AND
PERSONALLY AND THEOLOGICALLY HE
READS THAT BOOK.
>> Ifill: TWO OTHER THINGS TO
ASK YOU ABOUT, ONE, MARK, IS THE
HEALTHCARE LAW, THE WHITE HOUSE
CELEBRATING YESTERDAY THE
DEADLINE IS THE END OF MARCH.
THEY'RE CELEBRATING.
THEY HAVE 6 MILLION AMERICANS
NOW SIGNED UP -- WE KNOW THE LAW
IS STILL VERY UNPOPULAR, LARGELY
UNPOPULAR WITH THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
IS THIS, THOUGH, IN SOME WAY
TAKING THE EDGE OFF THE NEGATIVE
THAT THE REPUBLICANS HAVE MADE
THIS AS AN ISSUE IN.
>> BETTER THAN EXPECTED IS WHERE
IT IS.
7 MILLION WAS THE TARGET.
NOW 6 MILLION AND THE DEMOCRATS
ARE DOING A LITTLE VICTORY DANCE
IN THE END ZONE OVER THAT.
IT'S CERTAINLY FAR BETTER THAN
IT WAS AND YOU CAN SEE THERE'S
BEEN AN ALL-OUT EFFORT MADE.
I DO THINK THE REPUBLICANS,
QUITE HONESTLY, HAVE PROMISED TO
COME UP WITH ONE THAT WILL COVER
EVERYBODY AT A LOWER COST AND AT
NO INTRUSION.
WE'RE STILL WAITING FOR THAT.
IT HASN'T HAPPENED BUT IT HAS
BEEN AN ABJECT FAILURE ON THE
PART OF THE DEMOCRATIC
ADMINISTRATION TO SELL THIS
PLAN.
IT WAS 36% APPROVAL FOUR YEARS
AGO IN THE CBS POLL, 39%
APPROVAL TWO YEARS AGO AND 41%
APPROVAL.
IT'S A FAILURE TO CONVINCE
PEOPLE, PERSUADE PEOPLE THAT
THEY'RE RIGHT AND THE OTHER
SIDE'S WRONG.
>> Ifill: DAVID?
YEAH, WELL, I THINK THE PLAN
HAS ACHIEVED CREDIBILITY.
THERE'S SOME POSSIBILITY, NOT
THAT THERE WAS A LARGE
POSSIBILITY, BUT SOME
POSSIBILITY PEOPLE WOULDN'T SIGN
UP AND THE WHOLE THING WOULD
COLLAPSE BY LACK OF EFFORT.
SO IT CROSSED THAT THRESHOLD.
SO IT WILL FUNCTION, THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER WELL OR
POORLY, WHETHER THE EXCHANGES
WILL WORK, WHERE THE INNOVATION
WILL BE DRIVEN BY THIS, AND
COST, AND IT'S TOO SOON TO TELL.
IT WILL TAKE TWO OR THREE YEARS
TO BEGIN TO GET A SIGN OF THAT.
WHAT WE HAVE NOW IS PEOPLE
REACTING TO IT INDIVIDUALLY.
A LOT OF PEOPLE PLEASED THEY'RE
GETTING INSURANCE AT LOWER COST,
A LOT ARE DISPLEASED WHEN
PREMIUMS GO UP.
I THINK OVER THE NEXT SIX OR
SEVEN MONTHS THE INDIVIDUAL
EXPERIENCES WILL REPLACE THE
MORE IDEOLOGICAL REACTIONS.
I THINK IT WILL BE A GOOD ISSUE
THIS TIME FOR REPUBLICANS.
>> Ifill: PEOPLE ARE PAYING TO
NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE.
AN INTERNAL REPORT COMMON RATED
HIM IN ANY ROLE OF THIS BRIDGE
CLOSING, WHAT'S BECOME A
POLITICAL DISASTER.
DOES THIS REPORT IN ANY WAY
MITIGATE THE POLITICAL DAMAGE
THAT HE'S TAKEN, THE HIT HE'S
TAKEN?
>> BULLETIN -- GOVERNOR'S
CHRISTIE'S LAWYERS FIND GOVERNOR
CHRISTIE INNOCENT.
AS I UNDERSTAND IT THREE
INVESTIGATIONS ARE BEING
CONDUCTED AT THE TAXPAYERS
EXPENSE, A MILLION DOLLARS TO
THE FIRM WHO REPRESENTS THGOVER.
SO IT'S NOT REALLY LEON JAWORSKI
AND INDEPENDENT COUNCIL OR STAR
CHAMBER.
THEY INTERVIEWED EVERYBODY
EXCEPT THE THREE PEOPLE THE
GOVERNOR CONTINUES TO THROW
UNDER EVERY AVAILABLE BUS.
KELLY, GAIN AND A STEPPIAN.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF
QUESTIONS.
BUT WE STILL HAVE THE U.S.
ATTORNEY INVESTIGATING, AND WE
STILL HAVE THE LEGISLATURE
INVESTIGATING.
AND THE GOVERNOR WANTS TO
DECLARE HIMSELF INNOCENT.
HE'S FREE TO DO THAT.
I JUST THINK WHAT YOU'RE SEEING,
JUDY, IS HIM GOING FROM 41 TO
12 -- 41% FAVORABLE TO 12%
UNFAVORABLE IN "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" TO A 44% SWING AND
TRAILING HILLARY CLINTON.
I THINK THIS HAS BEEN A REAL
BLOW TO HIM AND HE JUST CAN'T
WHITEWASH IT HIMSELF.
>> Woodruff: HE TOLD DIANE
SAWYER AT ABC HE'S STILL
THINKING ABOUT RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT.
AT LEAST HE DIDN'T RULE IT OUT.
>> RIGHT.
I GUESS I AGREE WITH MARK IT IS
AN INTERNAL INVESTIGATION.
BUN THING WE CAN SAY IS LESS
LIKELY IS THERE WILL BE SOME
SMOKING GUN EMAIL THAT WILL
SURFACE.
I ASSUME THIS FIRM AND IT'S RUN
BY REPUTABLE PEOPLE, I ASSUME
THEY DID NOT BURY SOME SORT OF
SMOKING GUN EMAIL THEY FOUND
AMONG THE DOCUMENT SEARCHES.
SO HE MAY STILL HAVE TO FACE THE
TESTIMONY OF THESE THREE PEOPLE,
THE TESTIMONY OF THE PEOPLE THAT
HE DID KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON
BUT THERE'S AT LEAST SO FAR NO
HARD EVIDENCE HE KNEW WHAT WAS
GOING ON WITH THE LANE CLOSURE.
SO I THINK THAT'S GOOD NEWS FOR
HIM.
I'M STRUCK BY TWO THINGS, I'VE
SEEN HIM TALKING TO REPUBLICAN
DONOR GROUPS AND THEY ARE NOT
INTERESTED.
THEY WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
NATIONAL ISSUES.
THE LONG-TERM PROBLEM WHICH IS
WHAT MARK REFERRED TO IS THE
POPULARITY.
I THINK HE HAS A LITTLE
POSSIBILITY, USING THE MONEY
HE'S GOING TO BE GETTING, TO
BUILD BACK SOME LONG-TERM POP
PARTICULARITY BUT HE'S OBVIOUSLY
HURT.
>> Woodruff: WE THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ONE OF AFRICA'S MOST NOTABLE
SINGERS.
JEFFREY BROWN CAUGHT UP WITH
ANGELIQUE KIDJO HERE AT GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY RECENTLY
WHERE SHE CALLED ON THE WORLD TO
SING, DANCE, AND LIFT UP THE
WOMEN OF HER CONTINENT.
>> Brown: ANGELIQUE KIDJO
DEDICATES HER NEW ALBUM "EVE" TO
THE WOMEN OF AFRICA: TO "THEIR
RESILIENCE AND THEIR BEAUTY."
BORN IN THE SMALL WEST AFRICAN
COUNTRY OF BENIN, NOW LIVING IN
BROOKLYN, KIDJO HAS MADE THE
EMPOWERMENT OF WOMEN AND GIRLS A
PART OF HER MUSIC AND LIFE'S
WORK FOR DECADES.
>> Brown: TO HER ANTHEM
"AFIRIKA."
SHE SINGS IN A VARIETY OF
AFRICAN LANGUAGES, ALONG FRENCH
AND ENGLISH.
AND MIXES AFRICAN RHYTHMS WITH
WESTERN POP, SOUL AND JAZZ.
THE IDEA FOR HER LATEST WORK
CAME DURING A TRIP TO KENYA,
WHEN SHE ENCOUNTERED A GROUP OF
WOMEN SINGING TRADITIONAL SONGS.
SHE WENT ON TO RECORD THEM AND
THEN OTHER WOMEN'S CHORAL GROUPS
IN BENIN, AND IT ALL BECAME PART
OF AN ALBUM CELEBRATING WOMEN'S
POTENTIAL.
>> A WOMAN DOES NOT SIT HOME
DOING NOTHING.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
5:00 A.M. IN THE MORNING SHE'S
ALREADY UP HUMMING A SONG,
GETTING READY, THINKING ABOUT
HOW THIS DAY GOING TO GO, WHAT
CAN I DO TO MAKE THIS DAY
SPECIAL A ONE EVEN THOUGH THERE
ARE CHALLENGES.
ITS NOT LIVING IT'S SURVIVAL BUT
THEY HAVE A SKILL OF SURVIVAL IN
BEAUTY, RESILIENCE, MIND AND
STRENGTH AND EVERY TIME I GO I'M
REMINDED EVERY DAY WHEN I GO
THAT ITS NOT ABOUT MONEY ITS
ABOUT HOW YOU FALL AND HOW YOU
RISE.
IT'S ABOUT HOW YOU SEE YOURSELF
IN THE ROLE YOU PLAY IN YOUR
SOCIETY AND IN THE WORLD.
AND WHO YOU ARE, YOU HAVE
KNOW YOURSELF TO BE ABLE TO GO
NO OTHER PEOPLE.
AND THAT IS SOMETHING I WANT
THEIR VOICE TO TELL THE WORLD.
>> Brown: THE GRAMMY-WINNING
KIDJO HAS ATTRACTED A GLOBAL
FOLLOWING AND PERFORMED AND
RECORDED WITH LEADING WESTERN
STARS INCLUDING BONO ANALICD IA
KEYS.
AND NOW SHE'S TOLD THE STORY OF
HER RISE TO THE INTERNATIONAL
STAGE, IN A NEW MEMOIR: "SPIRIT
RISING: MY LIFE, MY MUSIC."
TIMED TO A U.S. TOUR AND THE
RELEASE OF HER TENTH ALBUM.
THE STORY BEGINS AT HOME, WITH
NINE SIBLINGS, TWO SUPPORTIVE
PARENTS, HER MOTHER WAS A DANCER
AND HER FATHER AN AMATEUR
MUSICIAN, AND ONE VERY
DETERMINED YOUNG GIRL, READY TO
SING HER HEART OUT.
>> THE VOICE IS THE MIRROR OF
YOUR SOUL AND I WANT MY SOUL TO
TOUCH OTHER PEOPLE'S SOULS.
>> Brown: YOU KNEW THIS EVEN AS
A YOUNG GIRL?
>> I HAVE SO MUCH FUN WHEN I'M
SINGING.
MUSIC HAS ALWAYS BEEN MY BREATH,
MY STRENGTH, EVERYTHING COMES
BACK TO IT.
I'VE GROWN UP IN A FAMILY WHERE
MY PARENTS HAVE MADE THIS HOUSE
AVAILABLE TO EVERY HUMAN BEING.
THAT'S MY FATHER'S WILL TO OPEN
THE HOUSE TO PEOPLES' BRAIN.
MY FATHER SEES PEOPLE MORE AS
WHAT WE CAN INTELLECTUALLY IN
THE HEART SHARE TOGETHER.
>> Brown: BUT IN HER CULTURE,
GIRLS WEREN'T SUPPOSED TO ASPIRE
TO BE ARETHA FRANKLIN, AN EARLY
ROLE MODEL FOR THE YOUNG
ANGELIQUE.
>> THE DEFINING MOMENT FOR ME
WAS COMING BACK FROM SCHOOL ONE
DAY WHERE OUT OF THE BLUE I
START HEARING PEOPLE THROWING
STONE AT ME, SPITTING AT ME,
CALLING ME A WHORE, A PROSTITUTE
A KIND OF HORRIBLE NAME.
>> Brown: IT JUST WASN'T
SOMETHING GIRLS WERE SUPPOSED TO
DO.
>> NO.
YOU SING TRADITIONAL MUSIC ITS
OKAY BECAUSE OUR TRADITION IS
ORAL.
SO I CAME HOME CRYING SAYING I
DON'T WANT TO SING ANYMORE AND
MY GRANDMOTHER SAID TO ME,
"THAT'S ALL?
YOU ARE CRYING BECAUSE SOME
STUPID PEOPLE ARE MAKING
COMMENTS?
I HAVE ADVICE FOR YOU: YOU
CANNOT BE LOVED BY EVERYBODY AND
YOU CANNOT LOVE EVERYBODY.
IF WHAT YOU DO MAKES YOU HAPYP
AND WITHIN OUR CIRCLE OF FAMILY
WE SUPPORT YOU, WE LOVE YOU, WE
DON'T JUDGE WHAT YOU DO."
>> Brown: KIDJO LEFT HER
HOMELAND IN 1983 AFTER A
COMMUNIST REGIME TOOK OVER AND
CRACKED DOWN ON ARTISTIC
FREEDOM.
SHE WENT TO PARIS AND
ESTABLISHED HERSELF IN THE MUSIC
SCENE THERE. SHE ALSO MET HER
MUSICIAN HUSBAND, JEAN, NOW HER
MANAGER.
>> Brown: IN A FURTHER NOD TO
HER PAST, ON THE NEW ALBUM THE
53 YEAR OLD KIDJO RECORDED THE
VOICE OF HER 87 YEAR-OLD MOTHER
"YVONNE EVE" ON A SONG CALLED
"BANA," WHICH URGES PEOPLE TO
VALUE EACH OTHER OVER MONEY.
>> AT EIGHT YEARS OLD WHEN I WAS
SINGING WOMEN'S RIGHTS WITH MY
MOTHER, I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW I WAS
BEING A FEMINIST AT THE TIME SO
FOR ME FOR HER NOT TO BE THERE,
IT WOULDN'T BE COMPLETED.
HER VOICE WAS THE LAST ONE THAT
I RECORDED.
I ALWAYS ASK WHY WOMEN ARE
BLAMED FOR EVERYTHING AND SHE
SAID TO ME BECAUSE MEN HAVE TOLD
OUR STORY FOR US.
WE NEED TO TELL OUR STORIES OF
ALL OF US, MEN, WOMEN, ALL
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Brown: THAT IS WHAT SHE AIMS
TO DO, WITH HER WORK AS A UNICEF
GOODWILL AMBASSADOR, AND WITH
HER OWN "BATONGA FOUNDATION",
WHICH HAS PROMOTED EDUCATION FOR
GIRLS ACROSS AFRICA SINCE 2007.
>> WOMEN ARE THE BACKBONE OF
AFRICA.
AND WHEN YOU EDUCATE A YOUNG
GIRL, ONCE SHE BECOMES A MOTHER
SHE PUT BOYS AND GIRLS EQUALLY
TO SCHOOL, SHE UNDERSTANDS
SANITATION IMPORTANCE, SHE
UNDERSTAND VACCINATION, SHE
UNDERSTAND A LOT OF THINGS THAT
WOULD HELP HER KIDS GROW UP TO
BE HEALTHY AND TO BE WELL
EDUCATED.
THE WOMAN THAT IS EDUCATED
RAISES THE G.D.P. OF THE
COUNTRY.
CHILD DEATH AT BIRTH IS REDUCED
DRASTICALLY.
DISEASES DISAPPEAR.
I MEAN, WE TRANSFORM AFRICA
COMPLETELY BY EDUCATING MORE
WOMEN BECAUSE WE NEED NEW
LEADERSHIPS.
>> Brown: EMPOWERMENT THEME
CONTINUES TO ANIMATE HER MUSIC:
ONE SONG SUGGESTS THAT SINCE
WOMEN SUFFER DURING WAR, THEY
SHOULD HAVE A ROLE IN BROKERING
PEACE.
AND, ANOTHER ADDRESSES FORCED
MARRIAGES.
AT THE END OF CONCERTS,
ANGELIQUE KIDJO INVITES THE
CROWD TO JOIN HER ON THE STAGE.
A FESTIVAL OF DANCE AND SONG,
OF ALL AGES, SIZES, MEN AND
WOMEN.
>> MUSIC NOURISHED THE PERSON
THAT I AM TO BE ABLE TO GIVE AND
WHEN I'M ON STAGE, STAGE IS MY
LITTLE PIECE OF HEAVEN.
IF HEAVEN LOOKED LIKE THIS THE
DAY I DIE, OH BOY I'M DYING
TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN LISTEN TO
MORE OF ANGELIQUE'S MUSIC ON ART
BEAT.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORITIES SHIFTED
THE SEARCH FOR A MISSING
MALAYSIAN AIRLINER NEARLY 700
MILES TO THE NORTH.
GENERAL MOTORS RECALLED ANOTHER
824,000 VEHICLES THAT MAY HAVE
FAULTY IGNITION SWITCHES.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTIN TO PULL
HIS TROOPS BACK FROM UKRAINE'S
EASTERN BORDER.
THEY SPOKE BY PHONE FOR AN HOUR.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, MOBILE BANKING IS ON THE
RISE, ESPECIALLY AMG VON
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
WASHINGTON WEEK, WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WHY VLADIMIR PUTIN
HAS THE THREE U.S. PRESIDENTS,
PLUS THE PRESIDENT MEETS THE
POPE.
THE HEALTHCARE LAW HAS A GOOD
WEEK AND ABORTION ARGUMENTS AT
THE SUPREME COURT.
THAT'S A LOT TO GET TO BUT WE'LL
MANAGE LATER TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON TOMORROW'S
EDITION OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
CORRESPONDENT MEGAN THOMPSON
LOOKS AT A  CALIFORNIA LAWSUIT
TARGETING TEACHER TENURE IN
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT FROM HER
REPORT.
>> THE NINE STUDENT PLAINTIFFS
IN THE CASE IN CALIFORNIA ARE
CHALLENGING TWO MAIN AREAS OF
STATE LAW.
EMPLOYMENT PROTECTIONS THE
PLAINTIFFS SAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT
TO DISMISS BAD TEACHERS AND THE
SENIORITY-BASED LAYOFF SYSTEM
WHICH THEY SAY MAKES IT HARD TO
KEEP GOOD SENIOR TEACHERS DURING
DIFFICULT TIMES.
>> THERE ARE CERTAIN TEACHERS
YOU KNEW IF YOU GOT STUCK IN
THEIR CLASS YOU WOULDN'T LEARN A
ON MONDAY,WITH A LOOK AT THE
LATEST U.N. REPORT ON THE IMPACT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.